All
right.
Heavy squat day today. And if you've
been following, I've been doing my
stiletto squats as the warm-up to my
heavy squats. And this is a topic that I
want to address is warm-ups and what is
adequate warm-up and when is there a
point of it being too fatiguing. And I
think a lot of people have gotten this
wrong. A lot of people rush their
warm-ups because they think that it's
going to interfere with their energy
levels for their main work. And I don't
agree with that. I think that the
warm-ups, if they're done correctly,
should stimulate, not annihilate. to the
point where now during my rehabilitation
process, I don't want to keep on talking
about my rehab process. It's rehab. My
leg's good. But to get to this position
where I am good, I started doing my
heavy sessions with a very extensive
warm-up. And that warm-up was stiletto
squats up until a pretty high set, which
is seen as fatiguing, but for me, it
wasn't fatiguing. It was stimulating.
Cuz then I come to my my real work,
which is where I was hoping to do my
heavy low bar squats. And I was so warm
that I was just able to take big jumps
and it just felt light. It felt easy. It
felt great. So now I'm at a point where
last week I did 280 kg squat. The week
before was 270. The week before was 260.
I'm going up in 10 kg jumps and the plan
today is 290 kg. The thing is I think
that I'm already at 300 kg. Uh because
that's where I was before I tore my
quad. So these 10 kg jumps, it's like
it's not usually that possible to just
keep on going 10 kg jumps forever. But
the fact is I'm not working as hard as I
can every time I make these top singles.
It's not a one rep max. they are heavy
singles. So doing a 260 kg uh you know a
few weeks ago was was a conservative
single. So then to be able to jump by 10
kg isn't me getting stronger by 10 kg
every week. I'm just gradually feeling
the weight now. Up to this point it's
been working to do the heavy top set of
stiletto squats which is seemingly
fatiguing but for me it's just feeling
great. So I'm just going to keep on
doing it. You know, I think there'll
come a point, I think it might be when I
get to 300 kg, which is maybe next week,
where I ditch this because maybe it
could be a little bit fatiguing, but
maybe not. I'm feeling great. And that's
the whole idea of warm-up sets. And
that's I think a problem that a lot of
people face is they're not warming up
enough and by the time they get to the
top sets, they're underperforming. And
it's a fine line because everyone's
different. Some people get good at big
jumps and others get good at taking
smaller incremental increases to allow
their body to feel what it feels like to
go slightly heavier. And at different
stages of my journey, it was always
changing. So when I was younger, I was
able to take bigger jumps because my
body didn't hurt as much. I don't have
major injuries right now, but you know,
it just takes longer for me to be able
to put that weight on my back and to
accept that, okay, it's feeling good.
Let's do it. So warm-ups are absolutely
individual. A lot of the research talks
about things like warm-ups. All you need
to do is a quick warm-up and it needs to
be specific, which partially I agree
with. I think specificity with warm-ups
is absolutely spot on. So, what does
that mean? It means don't go for a run
around the block and then come in for
your top set of heavy squats and think
that that's sufficient warm-up. You're
warm, but you're not ready. The nervous
system isn't ready. So, that's why
specificity matters. And I agree that
the best type of warm-up is to start
with the exercise you're about to do
unloaded and gradually warm up, right?
So, how do we do that? I'll tell you
there's a few incorrect models that I
believe are incorrect. I've seen a few
personal training courses that talk
about things like, you know, do the
first warm-up set with 50% of your top
weight, 50% and then 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%
go. For me, 50%, well, I'm going to be
squatting 290 kg today. That would make
it 145 kg being my first warm-up set. Of
course, I probably could come in and do
145 kg cold, but it would feel terrible.
I don't want it to feel terrible. I want
it to feel easy. And you know this is
how I'm preparing myself to do that. So
you need to figure out what makes it
feel easy for you. It shouldn't be
painful. It shouldn't be rusty or you
know awkward movement. It should
actually be comfortable. Getting under
the bar should be comfortable. There
should be zero pain. It should feel
smooth. And if it doesn't, I always say
you need to earn the right to add weight
to the bar. So quite often what my
warm-up involves is lots and lots and
lots of reps of no weight. Literally no
weight. So I do unloaded. So, not even a
barbell, squats, body weightight squats.
And before that, I was doing leg press
with an empty leg press. So, no weight
on that and doing set. Well, I did one
set of 50 just taking my body through
the motions. And people consider that
fatiguing. Why would no weight be
fatiguing? I'm about to squat 290 kg. In
my opinion, that's stimulating. The rule
is spend a lot of time doing the
non-fatiguing weight. Spend a lot of
time doing that. And then as you start
loading, so right now I'm at the point
where I'm just going to do one rep, one
rep, one rep. I'm going to be taking 25
kg jumps. So, I just did 75 kg, which is
the barbell, the red, and the 2 and 12
kg metal collars. So, I'm going to go
75, 100, 125, 150, 175, 200, and then
225. Uh, is my plan for the top single.
So, let's go to that. And all I'm going
to do is one rep at a time. That's not
fatiguing. The next thing that's
important with your warm-ups is how much
rest you have in between. So, right now,
of course, I'm talking to you, so this
is me resting. But if I wasn't talking
to you, my rest periods for these
lightweights would be however long it
takes to add the plates to the bar, put
the clips on, set up my camera, press
start, walk around, and do the movement,
which could take about 1 to 2 minutes.
But then as it starts getting heavier
and heavier, like to get from 175 kg to
200, I'm probably going to start timing
my rest periods and giving myself about
4 minutes and then 5 minutes before my
top set because that's when I actually
need the recovery. So, it is fatiguing
if I'm not giving myself rest, but I am.
This is how we make it stimulating, not
annihilating. So, let's do the first
portion of my session, which is going to
be stiletto squats, working up to a top
single of 225 kg. Stiletto squat, if you
haven't been following me, is a high
heel elevated squat. I'm using that
plate because we have we have ramps,
right? So, the ramps are kind of pointed
straight ahead, but I don't point my
feet straight ahead. I slightly point
them outwards which is why I like the
plate because it allows me to position
my feet in a very comfortable way. Now
what that does is it allows me so have a
look at my body position. It allows me
to get maximum knee bend which is where
my hamstring is pressed against my calf
which is in my opinion the best
quadriceps builder for all of the free
weight squat patterns. So that's uh my
favorite quad builder. And then I'm
going to be moving on to my low bar
squats. So let's go one rep at a time.
Come on.
[Applause]
All right. 225. You know, it's weird
because that's technically the most I've
done there. So, we'll call it a PB
because it is. But I'm not super excited
about that because that's not one of
those ego lifts. It's like, yeah, let's
really push the PB here. This is a feel
set. This allows me to know. Last week I
did 220 before my 280. puts me in a
position of confidence to say, "Cool, I
just did 5 kilograms more with a very
similar degree of difficulty, which
means I'm stronger than last week or I'm
more prepared than last week." So, do I
think it's reasonable to say that I can
go up on my next top set, which is going
to be low bar squats? The answer is for
sure. Uh, so great start to the day.
Next up, I'm going to change the
barbells and I'm going to change the
plates because now, because I'm going to
be going for 290 kg, I'm in a position
where these plates, the further they are
on the outside, see that? See how whippy
it is? Look at that. Right? So, I need
to change the bar. So it doesn't do
that. And then I'm also going to be
using the powerlifting plate. So for
this 225, that shake, it doesn't put me
off that much, but if it gets to, you
know, usually it's over 280 kg that that
really does shake my body. So to make it
a little bit easier now, I'm going to be
doing a thicker bar power lifting plates
working up to 290 kg. And we're going to
go up in 25 kg jumps starting at 90 kg.
90 115. What's 25? More than that, huh?
140 165 190 Is that right? 215 240
230 You said 140 from 115. Is it 240?
>> 290. That's right. 40 65. Yeah, exactly.
Anyway, so we're going to do the same
process. So, what's that same process?
The same process is, you know, I zone
out, right? So, now I'm chilled. That's
my first part of the session done. And
I'll tell you now, I'm going to do the
whole warm-up set again. So, I'm going
to go on, as I said, 90 kg is my first
set, which is going to feel comfortable.
I just squatted, you know, 225 kgs in a
very, you know, non- mechanically
advantageous position, right? So, this
is hypertrophy exercise. It's not really
suitable for 1 RMS, but anyway, I did it
that way. But, you know, that's another
topic altogether where we talk about
exercises for techniques for lifting the
most weight compared to techniques for
building the most muscle are two
different things. When the goal is to
build the most muscle, you don't want to
be efficient. When the goal is to lift
the most weight, you do want to be
efficient. So, this is not efficient.
I'm putting myself in a harder position
intentionally to challenge my quadriceps
maximally. But now, you'll see the
difference in strength, obviously. So,
that's 225. And that was kind of like a
high RP. I don't know what you'd call
that. That was over a 9 RP for sure.
Could I have done a second rep? I don't
know. I didn't feel like it to be honest
with you. So, that would call it an RP
of 9 and plus, right? Right. And that's
what I believe that 290 is going to feel
like as well. It's probably going to
come up very similar speed. So that's
going to be the difference between the
exercises that aren't efficient to
positioning my body in a way and the
barbell in a way. So low bar instead of
high bar, wide stance instead of close
stance, and using my hips instead of my
quads is going to allow me to shift a
much heavier weight. So you'll see the
difference. But it's like I'm warm. You
know what I mean? I'm warm.
Oh man.
Do you know what it means when I put my
belt down
and take my wrist wraps off?
means we're done.
Didn't injure myself,
but
it's not there today.
There's too much happening. There's too
much on my mind. There's too many
distractions
and I don't I'm not in the right frame
of mind to attempt another 10 kg from
last week. Even though I feel like, you
know, warming up to it, everything was
moving well.
I didn't like how that moved.
That was too hard. 265. You know, under
most circumstances, I would attempt it.
But, you know, these are, I guess, part
of what happens when you injure
yourself. I'm not injured, but you learn
for next time, you know. And it's
probably making me a little bit too
conservative, you know, when I look at
that. If I was in competition, I'd go
for it. But I'm not in competition right
now. I'm in training and
right now if I got 290 I'd be happy. But
if I injured myself doing 290
and I was I had to go do that whole
thing again and wasted another, you
know, 9 weeks or whatever it was, I
would be headbutting a wall. So I don't
think I'm where I need to be for this
session to work. So I need to,
you know, change of plans. So this is
going to be my lighter week. So, this is
also what happens um when I'm getting to
the heavier levels. I kind of do heavy
session, light session, heavy session,
light session. Um sorry, heavy week,
light week. Now, I'm squatting twice a
week. And I'm doing light session, heavy
session. But now, I believe I'm at a
point where, you know, once every 14
days I should be going heavy. So,
I guess that means I'm going to have to
revise my plan so that maybe next week I
can go for 290. That'll be cool.
Whatever. Bit slower than I had hoped,
but whatever. People want whatever they
want, what they get. It was not
necessarily the same thing. That did not
move. I'm just watching it on repeat.
Moved okay for 265, but I'm not going
for 265. I want 290.
And I want for 290 to happen with uh
walk away unscathed. That needed to feel
a little bit better.
So, I'm going to have a think about what
I want to do. I'm going to do some more
low bar work.
I'm going to rewarm up. Maybe do some
reps. Maybe do some pause work and just
refine.
[Applause]
Okay.
That actually felt nice.
Yeah, but it felt nice to just bend my
knees and do do rep work, you know.
[Music]
How do you want it?
You know, even that was harder than it
should have been.
It just feels uncomfortable.
I think I made the right decision in not
pushing it. I'm not going to do more
sets. I'm going to do accessories. I'm
going to do leg extensions, hammer
curls, easy stuff. And then next week is
going to be new week. If you've been
following me on Instagram and all my
other channels, you know that I don't
just give you my highlights. So, today
wasn't just I don't want to say it was
all bad. You know what I mean? Like,
wasn't that bad. I did more than I did
last week. Actually, I did more on the
stiletto squat for the warmup. I did 15
kilos less for my top set with more in
the tank, though. A little bit more. Not
much, but a little bit more. And then I
did back down work, which I didn't do
last week. So, whatever. I didn't really
go backwards. I just wasn't there for
this week. But I've been calculating.
I've been kind of moving forward every
single week. And humans don't progress
linearly. So, uh here's me showing you
that
um you know, you don't always just move
forward. But, you know, I'm going to
show you guys anyway. I'm going to be
posting this video. whatever. Um, I
didn't make my top set. No big deal. Uh,
I will come back next week and be trying
to tackle the neverending algorithm of
strength training. You know, we're
always trying to predict how to progress
and how to move forward. I didn't fail
anything today. I just didn't attempt
it. Um, maybe I could have got it, but I
just wasn't worth the risk for me. Um,
but anyway, if you got any questions for
me, any comments or whatever it is, put
in the comment section and uh I'll do my
best to answer it. Otherwise, uh, stay
tuned for next sessions. I will be back.
I'll be back next week. See you then.
You get the worst of me, bro. I swear.
Like, I do a set of eight at 200 and I
get off. This is me. This is my life,
right? I'm not trying to do this. I got
my videographer there just in case. He's
He's doing what he has to do, right? And
I get off. I do 200 for eight. I'm like,
"Okay, I got to talk to the camera now."
And I can't even breathe.
And he's just sitting there capturing me
eating It's like, "Ah, I don't
know what to do."
Anyway, whatever. See you guys.